Mark Friedman states the obvious, but often overlooked - results matter.  All the hard work and good intentions in the world are meaningless if they don't solve the problems the problems you set out to solve.

In the realm of government this is the multitude of agencies and stakeholders all focused on their own objectives rather than the bigger picture.  Even when each individual agency is successful, they might not be successful as a whole.  He says the issue is with how success is measured - if we want to better society, we need to measure success of the population as a whole, not just particular programs.  This makes perfect sense. 

Yet he then proposes that a specific agency should NOT define its targets in terms of the population.  In his Results-Based Accountability (RBA) framework, he explicitly divides the communities from the agencies.  This seems counter to his first point.  If every agency, in its own "fiefdom," can define its own targets only in terms of its very specific objectives, then the original outcome as a whole can easily be missed.  This may be successful when there is good leadership which can coordinate the agencies but without, even if everyone does their best, it might not have the desired effect.

For example, one of DeBlasio's One New York initiatives is to make sure that everyone has access to a job within a 45 minute commute.  But even if DOT and MTA work to improve commutes, without new jobs or new housing, or if the housing and jobs are not where the commutes were improved, the end goal won't be reached.  The MTA could say they've reached their goal of improving service - but if they haven't helped people access jobs, then were they successful at what they set out to do?

On a practical day-to-day level, being overly concerned with the bigger picture may be onerous and make it harder for agencies to fulfil the mission.  But even if we divide up our government into silos, in the end they are all meant to serve the common, greater good and must remember that.  And so, even if each agency were to use his RBA framework to inform their own program actions, they should always be re-evaluating their operations and adapting if what they are doing no longer aligns with the common goal.

One thing I do like about his RBA framework is that, after establishing the quality of life conditions to address, the next step involves imagining the city with those problems fixed.  What would be different about that city?  This reminds me of Dan Doctoroff's methodology for innovation where he first starts by imagining the ideal city and then finding a path from the current state to that ideal.  This helps us focus on long-term lasting change.